Docs: Fundamentals of Block Development - File structure of a block (#56551)
WordPress/gutenberg: docs/getting-started/fundamentals-block-development/file-structure-of-a-block.md

# File structure of a block

> The most common way to register a custom block is via a JSON file that contains all of the metadata of the block.

Reviewer: This line feels out of place. I am not sure how it directly relates to the file structure.  🤔

Author: You're right. It's not clear the value of this message here.
I'll remove it.

The files generated by this tool are a good reference of the files that can be involved in the definition and registration of a block.

[![Open File Structure of a Block Diagram in excalidraw](https://developer.wordpress.org/files/2023/11/file-structure-block.png)](https://excalidraw.com/#json=YYpeR-kY1ZMhFKVZxGhMi,mVZewfwNAh_oL-7bj4gmdw "Open File Structure of a Block Diagram in excalidraw")

### `<plugin-file>.php`

A block is usually added to the block editor using a WordPress plugin. In the main PHP file of the plugin the block is usually registered on the server side.

<div class="callout callout-info">
For more on creating a WordPress plugin see <a href="https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/plugin-basics/">Plugin Basics</a>, and <a href="https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/plugin-basics/header-requirements/">Plugin Header requirements</a> for explanation and additional fields you can include in your plugin header.
</div>

### `package.json`

> [`package.json`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v10/configuring-npm/package-json) is a configuration file for a NodeJs project. In this file you define the NPM dependencies of the block and the scripts used for local work.

Reviewer 2: I believe 
```suggestion
[`package.json`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v10/configuring-npm/package-json) is a configuration file for a Node.js project. In this file you define the NPM dependencies of the block and the scripts used for local work.
```

I believe it's supposed to be node.js

- The `render` property, usually set with the path of a bundled `render.php` (output copied from `src/render.php`).
- The `viewScript` property, usually set with the path of a bundled `view.js` (output copied from `src/view.php`).

[![Open Build Output Diagram in excalidraw](https://developer.wordpress.org/files/2023/11/file-structure-build-output.png)](https://excalidraw.com/#json=c22LROgcG4JkD-7SkuE-N,rQW_ViJBq0Yk3qhCgqD6zQ "Open Build Output Diagram in excalidraw")

### `index.js`

The `index.js` file (or any other file defined in the `editorScript` property of `block.json`) is the entry point file for javascript that should only get loaded in the editor. It is responsible for calling the `registerBlockType` function to register the block on the client. In a standard structure it imports the `edit.js` and `save.js` files to get functions required in block registration.

### `edit.js`

The `edit.js` commonly gets used to contain the React component that gets used in the editor for our block. It usually exports a single component that then gets passed to the `edit` property of the `registerBlockType` function in the `index.js` file.

### `save.js`

> The `save.js` is similar to the `edit.js` file in that it exports a single React component. This component generates the static HTML markup that gets saved to the Database. 

Reviewer 2: `save` is a standard JavaScript function. It can be created as a component but under the hood only the render method is called as a JS function. Looking at scaffolded files, you'll notice that `save` is lowercase and React components are written in uppercase.

This may be pedantic but it's worth mentioning.
